Welcome to Baria Temple International Church's Podcast.
I am your host Timothy, and we're here together on this beautiful day to hear from God.
Today, we're fortunate to have our beloved pastor, Michael Gonzalez, with us who will be sharing God's word.
So let's all prepare ourselves to receive what God has in store for us today.
Let's begin.
Again, as always, I want to say good morning to our church family.
I pray that you had a fantastic week.
I pray that you found opportunity to share Jesus and to have what we would call divine appointments, God moments, to share Jesus with somebody this week.
Now, today, as always, we're going to continue on in our series.
that we are doing and again for the whole year is we are.
We are creating an identity statement.
Yes, I sound like a broken record because I want us to get it together.
That's not a dig.
I want us to understand it together.
And so as we are building our identity statement, we are AG.
We are an Assemblies of God Church.
We are proud of that.
We are happy to be called Pentecostal because there is power in the name Pentecostal.
That means that we believe in Jesus Christ, in the resurrected King, in the power of the Holy Spirit, and that when He comes upon us, the Holy Spirit, that we are empowered to be His witnesses out into a lost and dying world.
That is the crux, the entirety of this particular sermon.
or this particular series this year.
So we are AG church members.
We are coming together here as a body within the church, gathered together
for a plan and a purpose.
We exist for a reason.
We don't come to church so that we can go, oh look, I did my spiritual duty for the week and now we are gonna go home and I'm gonna drink and cuss and corrals around or whatever it is.
We come together so that we are a body of Christ.
We are empowered, we are connected.
We are part of the body that Christ is raising up at the corner of Compton and Russell for a plan and a purpose.
Today, amen.
So not only are we AG church members, but we are AG church members who offer hope and healing to our community.
This is who we are today.
This is our current, we call it a sub-series, our full one is we are.
And so this is a series that we have when we talk about hope and healing that reminds us that our mission as AG church members extends beyond the walls
of our church, we are called to bring hope and healing to our community.
We are called to be the hands and feet of Jesus.
If you have never had a pastor who was big on that, if you, that's me, I wanna be the hands and feet of Jesus.
And sometimes that means we reach into places that other people don't wanna reach into.
Sometimes that means we walk into places that other people don't want to walk into.
Sometimes that means we have to put on the whole armor of God so that the fiery darts of the enemy don't get us.
But while we're doing that, we're putting on the full armor.
We're charging forward into the darkest places because that is where the people who need to hear the name of Jesus and need to see the light of His Word live and are existing.
And that is what we as the body of Christ today need to be.
And that is what we need to focus on is
bringing hope and healing, salt and light into our community.
When we talk about hope and healing, hope, what happens when we're in someplace dark.
What happens when you've been in, I know every one of us adults have been someplace dark before.
And I'm not talking about physical dark, I'm talking about spiritually and emotionally dark.
We couldn't see the end of the road.
We couldn't see how God was gonna get us out of this.
All we knew was that there was a situation and that somewhere on the other end God is existing and he's gonna work it out, but I don't see it at the moment.
My physical eyes, my spiritual eyes can't see the victory, but I already know it's there.
And then all of a sudden, there's a breakthrough.
And the light of Jesus shines.
That's hope.
So when we talk about hope and healing, hope is bringing light.
Hope is putting light into people's hearts and minds.
That there is a Jesus, there is a God who loves them.
There is a Savior who, if they will allow His light to shine back, it will guide them where they need to be.
And then we talk about being healing to our community.
What brings healing?
A little bit of salt.
Sometimes in the old days, and I'm not saying you should do it today, medical people don't
Come and get me.
But sometimes you would take in the old days and you would have a little scratch or a little wound.
You pour a little salt in it.
And it would start the healing process.
And it hurt like everything.
You ever get a little paper cut on your finger and then start doing something with food and all of a sudden you discovered, I have a paper cut and you didn't know it.
So when we talk about hope and healing, this could easily be translated in a more Christian-ease term that we are an A.G. church that is salt and light or light and salt to our community.
We offer hope and healing because our community, like so many others, face unique challenges.
Compton Heights, Shaw,
Fox Park, Tower Grove East, the Grove, the Gate.
They're all unique and they're all different.
And each one of them has a set of problems and a set of situations and circumstances that we as a church, when we say we're going to go and we're going to minister to Shaw.
That's a different evangelism plan-ish.
than if we're gonna minister right here in Compton Heights.
That's a different plan than if we're gonna go over to the gate.
It's definitely a different plan if we're gonna go over to the Grove.
But you know what all those have in common?
As with most people in this room, not all but most.
Do you know all those neighborhoods all of those communities have in common?
They're families.
There's children.
There's youth.
And right now, more than any other time in history.
And we say this generation to generation.
And the reality is, it's true, generation to generation.
Our students, our children stand at a crossroads of opportunity and adversity.
And as followers of Christ, we have a divine responsibility to support and uplift them and provide strength and guidance
throughout these uncertain times.
Listen, if you have children, you know some of the things that are coming home from them that they're being taught in the public school.
Some of the challenges that do not align with our Christian worldview.
And we're having to combat that as parents, as godly Christian parents.
We're having to combat some of these things.
And we're having to stop and unlearn or un-educate our children on some of these issues because the world is already the school system, the world, whatever it is, is trying to push a specific plan that is contrary to what we believe the Bible teaches.
And we as the church have a responsibility
to come behind parents and encourage them, to teach them, to uplift them, to encourage their children, to train their children, to aid in the teaching and in the course of action of what it is to have a biblical worldview.
So today, listen, we've talked through this sub-series of Hope and Healing, we've talked about a lot of different things.
But today we're gonna dig into what it means to be a church that understands our role in supporting families and youth.
We're gonna look at how we can strengthen family bonds, address challenges facing our young people and foster mentorship and relationships that build a brighter future for everybody.
There was a day in Berea Temple's history where six and seven buses
And I'm not talking about the little church vans.
I'm talking about buses, full size school buses.
Do you know that six or seven buses is more buses than some of the smaller school districts in our state?
And Berea Temple would run six and seven school buses full size and bring children from all over.
to this building.
This is not an ethereal concept.
This is not a, what if we did?
This is a, it happened.
And they would pull up and then we have pictures of the buses lined right out here on Russell.
And what, just like school, one right after the other pull up and kids would flow off.
Students would flow off of those buses and they would fill our classrooms.
And there was a day that our Sunday school
Our Sunday school.
Brother Raff, what would you do if you had 852 students in your adult Sunday school class?
Sister Crystal, 348 kids in the primary.
But these were the reality.
These are some of the numbers.
that we put up at one time in supporting families and youth.
So this isn't a new concept.
This isn't something that I'm just going, well, Pastor Mike's on a hobby horse.
He's picking on some of his favorite things.
No, this is the reality of the body of Christ and what can happen if we are all together and we're all moving towards a common goal and a common place.
We can help build a brighter future.
We can help equip the next generation of students and youth into
What is a biblical worldview and into the body of Christ?
There is a function.
I'm not saying we don't stop teaching and discipling and doing outreach to the adults.
We do that with as much fervor and effort as we ever have.
But if we want to see these pews filled in 10 years,
We need to start reaching, we need to start teaching, we need to start connecting with some of the smaller and middle-sized students.
Making a connection.
Turn myth with me if you will, and again, this is a passage you can already guess where I'm going, but I want you to turn with me, if you will, to Proverbs chapter 22 and verse six.
Proverbs chapter 22 and verse six, and this is what it says,
You can already guess.
Direct your children onto the right path, and when they are older, they will not leave it.
Train up a child in the way they should go, and when they are old, they will not depart from it.
Some other translations say.
Now, I do want to be careful.
I think I've shared this with this group before.
We want to be careful.
Many of us want to say, oh, this is a great promise.
This isn't a promise.
This is a proverb.
It's a wise saying, it's a teaching.
Just because, listen, some of us have children that are not serving the Lord in the way that they should right now.
And that's not a ding on you.
You trained up your child in the way they should go.
And there are outside forces, there are outside entities that are pushing against them with just as much fervor as there are that we have.
Again, we talked about we have our students for an hour and a half on Wednesday.
If you'll send them to Wednesday night youth and or children's now kids adventure.
We started last week.
We get them for an hour and a half and then we get them for about 45 minutes on Sunday morning for Sunday school and another about an hour or so for kids church.
If on the children and youth are in here.
That's a whole lot of hours in a week.
that other voices are pressing in.
So parents, again, I mentioned this the other day.
Prioritize sending your kids to church.
I know there's homework.
I know there's school assignments.
I know there's projects.
I'm not saying that those aren't important.
They are important.
Education is absolutely vital.
Bring them to church in the times that were open.
Bring them to church and the windows where we have something specifically for them because the proverb, the principle, the teaching is accurate.
To direct your children or to train up your child in the way they should go.
When they're old, they'll not depart from it.
Again, that doesn't mean we don't have a window where there are sometimes a difficulty.
I run a ministry.
Many of you know this called Christian guys.
I've run it since 2006.
The entire purpose of this ministry is to help bridge the gap from when young men in particular get a car.
They start driving.
And all of a sudden they have newfound freedom.
And what happens is they tend to walk away from the church for a little while.
Because now they can go out with their girl and they can go run around and they have access to go do other things.
And so there is a window sometimes where they walk away from their faith.
And I said, dear Lord, there's got to be something out there that we can do to bridge the gap between the 16 to say 24, 25.
Now the statistic used to be, we would get them back somewhere in the mid 20s when they finally settled down and had a child and they said, well, you know what?
I was trained when I was young and now that I'm older, I want my children trained and so they would come back to church.
The problem is, is that is unfortunately no longer the statistic.
The statistic is we're losing them at about 16, 17 and they're not coming back because there's too much out there.
There's too much access to the world, and there's too much rules and regulations that they say inside the church.
And so I have since 2006 made this effort to try to connect with those young people.
And I can tell you, they know.
They know what it is.
They have heard the words.
They have it in their heart, but for whatever reason, they are pulled apart.
They are pulled away in whatever
process.
But when we talk about directing our children, when we talk about setting them in order, this is a call to action for all of us.
It urges us to lay a strong, godly foundation for both our families and our youth.
It's a reminder that the work that we do now
the work that Sister Crystal and Pastor Jonathan and Pastor Sarah and Grandma Norma, how many of you are a product of Grandma Norma?
Yeah.
Okay, there's a whole lot more of you.
You just don't understand what I'm asking, but thank you.
So Grandma Norma toiled week after week, day after day.
And you're here because she laid a foundation in your heart.
You're here because your mom and dad laid a foundation in your heart for what should be and what you need to know about Christ.
When we talk about laying a foundation, we're talking about leaving a lasting impact in the lives of our students, shaping their future and the future of our grandchildren.
our great-grandchildren.
So we're gonna dig in a little bit today.
And I want us to think, I want us to set our hearts.
I want us to set our minds.
And I want us to think about what God might be calling us, Berea Temple, us, me individually.
What is God calling us
to do to support the families and youth in our community, not just in our church, but in our community.
When you walk out the door and you see the kids playing, I love
on a regular basis, I'm sitting in my office and I have my window, and I can hear outside, even if my window's not open, I can hear outside.
And at the basketball court that Brandon bought and set up there, because he wanted to play basketball, there are regularly young people coming and playing basketball.
They bring their own ball, they don't ever come and ask for one, but they bring their own ball and they're playing.
And guess what?
They're on our property.
And even if that's the only connection they have today,
I will very often walk out and check the mail because our mail box is right there too.
And I'll say hello and I'll greet them and I'll go, hey guys, how are you?
You having fun?
I'm so glad that you get to have, get to use the basketball hoop.
Have as much fun as you want.
There's anything we can ever do.
All you gotta do is come and knock on the door.
And now all I've done, I've not said Jesus, I've not said, but I've opened a door to the possibility of them knocking and saying, hey,
Can you?
Will you?
But when we talk about our sermon today, I want us to think about those kinds of things.
I want us to consider how we as a church can be a beacon of hope, because we've talked a lot about this.
And so we're trying to lay out these different beacons that we could offer up.
How can we be a beacon of hope and a source of healing to the families and the youth of our community?
So the first thing I want us to look at, again, if you're note taker, the first thing I want us to look at when we talk about being a beacon of hope and healing, the way we can do that is by strengthening family bonds and supporting single parents.
How do we strengthen family bonds?
You go, you know, that's a great phrase.
It's a cute catch phrase.
It's maybe even tweetable.
But how do we do it practically?
Look at Joshua chapter 24 and verse 15.
Again, a very familiar passage, but it's laying a foundation for us.
But if you refuse to serve the Lord, then choose today whom you will serve.
Would you prefer the gods of your ancestors served beyond the Euphrates, or will it be the gods of the Amorites in whose land you now live?
But as for me and my family,
We will serve the Lord.
We need to cultivate a God-centered family culture.
Too many times we allow our families when we get home to deviate off from what it is to be a Christ-centered, God-centered home.
Families are the foundation of our society, and a strong family starts with a commitment to serving God together.
I'm gonna insert another PSA, and if I had a soapbox, I would put it out and I would get up on it, okay?
So I'm just giving you a little bit of a warning now.
When we talk about serving God together, parents, you're not perfect.
Students, mom and dad, they're not perfect.
They don't have every answer.
They don't get every answer right.
I don't.
And it's okay to go to your children and say, you know what?
I made a mistake.
I was wrong.
It's okay to admit failure and say, listen, you know what?
I need you to forgive me because I did something wrong or I said something wrong or I said something I shouldn't have.
And I'm asking you to forgive me.
And I'm going to model what actual forgiveness looks like.
And I'm going to be humble like Christ asks us to be.
And I'm going to model a Christ-like behavior in our home.
There is nothing wrong with admitting that you made a mistake to your children.
There is nothing wrong with saying, hey, you know what, I don't have the answer to this, but you know what I do know, I do know where to find it.
Let's go to God's Word, let's go to a teacher, let's go to a police officer, whatever the question may be.
Let's call Pastor Mike if it's a church thing.
It's okay.
It's okay to be humble in front of our children.
Because when we prioritize our faith, when we prioritize a Christ-like humility, when we prioritize being a Christian, being Christ-like, we create an environment with our children where love, respect, and unity can thrive.
Did you catch all those words?
Love, that's easy.
I love my children.
Unity, that's okay.
Do what I said.
Right?
Okay, now we're together.
Respect.
That one's hard.
For our children to respect us.
I don't need my kid to respect me.
I just need them to obey.
They'll obey if they respect you.
Now, I understand I'm out in the weeds on this, but there is a situation, there is a call for us to have mutual respect within our family.
There is a call for them to understand that there's a reason why dad or mom made a decision.
There's a reason they had to do this.
There's a reason I got my behind hand.
And if I understand, then I can move forward.
We need to model
this kind of a family that is mutually loving, that is mutually respecting, that is mutually unified.
But we need to encourage other families.
We need to encourage other families to pray, to worship, and to serve together.
Mom and Dad, when was the last time you brought your children here to serve together?
I'm not talking about to send them up.
Listen, I'm all for teaching.
I've already said that.
But I'm talking about on a serve day.
And you bring your children with you.
And you're modeling how to serve the church.
How to serve in the body of Christ.
I hope that we're modeling prayer at home.
I hope that we're modeling worship at home.
Sometimes it's good.
Students, you're down here today because Pastor Jonathan and Sarah are on a vacation day today.
And so you get an opportunity to see mom and dad
Worship you get an opportunity to see mom and dad sit in a service and listen to the preaching No, this is not the most fun.
You're gonna have all day today.
I promise you that But there's an example that's being set There's a story about a large tree that stood in a farmer's field and the tree was tall and sturdy with deep roots that reached far beneath the surface and
One day a fire, a fierce storm came through with strong winds and heavy rain.
Yet after the storm had passed, the tree remained standing.
When asked why the tree did not fall, the farmer replied, the tree has weathered many storms because its roots are deep.
It's anchored to something unseen, but strong.
See, just like this tree, our families need to be deeply rooted in something strong and unshakable.
A commitment to serving the Lord.
A commitment to a relationship with the Almighty.
When we build a God-centered family culture, we give our families the foundation to withstand the storms of life.
This means prioritizing prayer and worship and the study of God's word together.
Even simple actions like praying at the dinner table or reading a Bible story before bed create deep roots that will help our families stand firm in faith.
But what about homes?
where there's not a complete nuclear family.
See, there's another way that we can be a beacon of hope and healing, and it's by empowering single parents through community support.
Psalm, chapter 68, verse five, says, father to the fatherless defender of widows, this is God, whose dwelling is holy.
I stand here as your example of this passage lived out in very real plane terms.
I grew up with being raised butt just by my grandma.
When I was about three years, three months old, my parents divorced and separated.
When I was seven years old, well, when I was four, I needed to be able to go to school, so I went to live with my grandmother and her husband, my step-grandfather.
and started school at five and at seven years old my step-grandfather left us divorced my grandmother and ever since then it's just been the two of us until I went off to Bible College and got married and started my own family
See, I'm a product of this, I'm not teaching you something.
I'm not standing up here preaching out of something that I don't know or something that's just a really nice idea.
I am a product of what can happen when the church does what they're supposed to do.
When it's there to support the single parent.
When it's there to say, hey, listen, we know that this young man doesn't have a father figure in the home.
And men of my church growing up, men, we're gonna get together and we're gonna be that to that young man.
We're gonna put him in royal rangers.
Yes, I'm a royal ranger.
your kid, Brad, whatever you want to call it.
Okay?
And we're going to model what it is to be a Christ-like man to this young man who doesn't have.
This is what the church can do.
This is how the church can impact an entire generation with the absence of fathers as it is today.
Now, thank the Lord.
I'm here to tell you, the absence of fathers trend is
Not really hard, but it's trending down just a little bit at last study I read.
But I'm an example of what can be when the church does this.
See, us as a church should be a refuge and a source of support for a single parent.
When a single parent gets to church, they should be able to go, because there's some place that my student can go,
I can get a cup of coffee and I can sit down and for an hour and a half, they're not pulling my hair out.
They're not asking for something else.
I don't have to run another errand.
I don't have to do another task because I know when I get to church, sister so-and-so or brother so-and-so, they're gonna grab onto my little one and they're gonna put their, they're gonna put their arm around them.
And they're going to be a mentor.
They're going to be a model of Christ-like behavior to my child, to my student.
That happened to me.
And even though we are not a single family, that happened to us when our little boys were small.
We would have a difficulty.
There was two of us and three of them.
And if you've met my boys, you know that challenge.
And they would grab on one of my boys.
And there was one couple in particular, Bill and Mary Sue Robertson.
And they would grab onto one of our boys.
It really didn't matter because it changed week to week.
And they'd say, hey, come on, you're going to come sit with us for service.
And they had a little bag like grandma's always do, little cheerios and snacks and toys and things like that.
And they would sit them down next to them.
And for the hour and a half that service was, we didn't have to worry about juggling one and where one kid was out of our view because we were trying to watch the other two.
And it was a blessing.
And this is the kind of support that we can offer, whether it's through practical help like childcare or emotional support through mentorship, we embody God's care for those in need.
We can be, again, the hands and feet of Jesus to a single parent.
Think about the story of Moses in Exodus chapter 17, and there's no passage up here.
When the Israelites were fighting the Amalekites, Moses stood on a hill holding up the staff of God.
As long as Moses held up his hands, the Israelites were winning.
But when his hands grew tired, Aaron and her came alongside him holding up his hands so that they remain steady until sunset.
This and the Israelites won the battle.
This is the foundation I have for Christian guys.
is that we're holding up the hands, and this is honestly the model that we have when we talk about being what hope and healing for a single parent.
Holding up their arms, holding up their hands, and saying, listen, we know Mom, we know Dad, you're tired.
We get it, and guess what?
We're here to help.
We're here to give a hand.
This is a powerful image of how we're meant to support one another, especially those who are weary or burdened.
Single parents in our community often carry heavy loads.
They may feel overwhelmed, tired, and in need of help as a church.
We're called to come alongside them.
Just as Aaron and her did for Moses, we can offer practical support and childcare meals or even just a listening ear, just a conversation.
Do you know how long it has been for some single parents to have an adult conversation that didn't include the word potty?
Just a grown up, hey, how was your week?
Did you catch the latest game or did you see the latest this or that?
We can be God's hands and feet, helping them to persevere and to find strength in the midst
of the challenges that they have.
And I'll move quickly because I know that I took a little lecture time in this one.
Second way we can be a beacon of hope and a source of healing is by addressing the challenges faced by the youth in our community.
Listen, students in our community are under immense pressure.
peer pressure, social media, and culture that often promotes values that are contrary to God's words.
The Psalmist in Psalm 199 says, how can a young person stay on the path of purity, living according to your word?
What did I do?
I skipped that one, sorry.
We have a responsibility to guide our youth through the wisdom found in Scripture, helping them to navigate the challenges with a Christ-centered perspective.
We call this a Christian worldview.
Listen, we've talked about this already.
We know that students are being pressed with ideologies that we don't believe, that we don't hold dear.
we need to be able to create a safe space for our students to grow and explore their faith.
And sometimes that means creating a space that doesn't look like this space, that's not all put together and decorated and all that.
It may be that the room is kind of messy like their bedroom or painted different colors or
whatever it may be, but it needs to be a place where they can explore their faith.
They can ask hard questions without judgment or prejudice.
They need a safe space so that they can find their purpose in Christ.
Again, this is my point with Christian guys, is it is a digital space where I don't care what they ask.
I tell young men all the time, listen, we can talk about anything.
There's nothing I won't talk about.
No topic is off limits.
And if you only know the curse, course, way of talking about that, that's fine.
I went to public school.
I'm going to tell you the right way.
I'm going to coach you in the way that it's supposed to be said.
But I'm a big boy.
I know how to spit in chew.
That's the Thomason's favorite line, meaning I know how to take the good and take the bad and toss it away.
And there is a safe place
for young men to talk and church needs to be that.
For young men, for young women, there need to be people here that are safe for young men and women to talk.
I'm gonna tell you very flat out parents again, this is just kind of a letting you know.
I tell our students all of the time, I am their pastor too.
And just like with you, they are given the privilege of autonomy.
They are given the privilege of
clergy, penitent, privilege.
What does that mean?
That means things that are shared with me don't go anywhere else, but right here.
They don't go to pastor Letitia, they don't go to mom and dad.
Well, but they need, I didn't, nope.
Sorry.
And if you want to tell them not to talk to me, that's your business.
They're your kids.
But they need a safe place where they can know that, you know what, I can't ground them.
I can't spank them.
I'm not gonna get them in trouble.
They just need to be able to come and have a conversation.
They need to be able to have access to say, hey, pastor, I need to understand something.
And I'm afraid that if I go to mom and dad, I'm going to get in trouble.
Or every time I ask this church question, I'm told, quit being silly.
I'm not saying I didn't do that to my own kids.
I'm right there with you parents.
I have no more of it put together than you do.
But I'm here for them.
We need to create a place where they can ask hard questions.
Because in asking the hard questions and dealing with it, that they're going to be able to find the answers that ultimately, I know the Holy Spirit's going to answer their heart.
I already know that.
So I'm not afraid of the question.
The enemy is the one that is trying to get them confused.
The enemy is the one that's trying to twist bits and pieces.
And my job as your pastor is to untie the knot that the enemy's trying to create.
Paul encourages Timothy.
Said, oops, did I skip another one?
Did I miss a Bible verse?
If you'll take it to 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 12, please.
1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 12 says, don't let anyone think less of you because you're young.
Be an example to all believers in what you say, in the way you live, in your love, in your faith, and your purity.
Don't let anyone think less of you.
We need our students, just like we need mom and dad, just like we need our elders.
This is why having properly trained and equipped pastors who specialize in this age group is absolutely vital for a church in our modern age.
There are some who think, well, a pastor is a pastor, but in reality, that's not true.
Just like there's many doctors, there are doctors who have specialties.
You wouldn't go to a podiatrist for a problem with your eyes.
A podiatrist is a foot doctor.
You wouldn't go to the dentist for a problem with your heart.
Could you imagine asking your dentist to do heart surgery?
That wouldn't work out too well now, would it?
See, pastors have areas that they specialize in as well.
Sure, we have a lot of what we would call generalists.
But there are many who specialize in college students, young families, some who are better equipped to handle the business of the church.
We call them executive pastors.
There are some who are able to work a congregation through conflict.
And yes, there are those whose specialty is communicating the gospel to children and to or to teenagers.
And they're able to walk them through the discipleship process.
Here at Brea Temple, we are blessed to have that type of pastors in Pastor Jonathan and Pastor Sarah.
They are a gift from the Lord for however long they are able to be with us.
Number three, and we'll get moving here.
The third way that we can be a beacon of hope and a source of healing
is about by providing mentoring programs and positive role models.
We've talked about this, so I'll go through this quickly.
Mentorship is a powerful way to instill hope and provide guidance to the next generation.
Titus chapter two and verse six says that Paul urges in the same way, encourage the young men to live wisely and yourself
and you yourself must be an example to them by doing good works of every kind.
Let everything you do reflect the integrity and seriousness of your teaching.
See a good godly mentor can help shape the character and the faith of those they guide.
Again, I'm a product of this activity.
A man named Mike Riker and they occasionally watch.
Yesterday was his birthday.
Happy birthday, Mike.
I was a five-year-old little boy who had no dad at home and he said, you know what?
We don't have kids.
I'm going to take this little guy under my wing.
And I've told you this story so I know you know it.
And for the entirety of my childhood, this man became
I call both of him and his wife, I call them my other parents.
And they hold as much weight, they hold as much influences in my life as my actual grandmother and mother and people in my life.
This is what the church can be and can do, is by providing that kind of mentorship.
Who in our church
Is there anybody in our church that you can think of that might need that kind of connection, that might need that kind of role model, that you could come alongside?
See, we as a church can be promoting positive role models both in the church and in the community.
Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 24 says, oh, there we go.
Let us think of ways to motivate one another to acts of love and good works.
How can we move the body of Christ forward?
There are all kinds of ways that we can do this.
There are all kinds of ways that we can support our community.
There's all kinds of ways.
I said a moment ago, I asked you, I said, who inside our church could benefit from this?
Let me ask a harder question.
Who outside our church could benefit from this in your other circles of influence?
What young man or what young woman could benefit in your circle of influence where you were to say, hey, listen, I'd like to take an opportunity if you're open and I'd like to spend some time.
Would you come and have lunch with us?
Would you come and have breakfast with me?
If you haven't seen it, I wanna encourage you to go see the movie called The Forge.
It's the next movie by the Kendrick Brothers.
And it is literally what I'm talking about.
I am a huge, huge proponent of this kind of discipleship.
Matter of fact, my entire ministry has been promoting that style of discipleship.
One on one, if you don't know what the movie is, I'm not gonna spoil it for you, cause it's still out in theaters.
But it is a model of discipleship that every Christian needs to see.
And it is not unique to men.
It is not unique.
They happen to use a man and a young man in it, but it is able to be done in both ways.
And so if you haven't gone to see it Tuesday, if money's a little tight, Tuesday is cheap ticket day at Ronnie's.
I don't know.
There's no ad.
We're not sponsored.
I just want you to go see the movie because it's a great movie.
And it shows what we're talking about.
This is the kind of body of Christ that we're talking about.
Who in your circle of influence could you put around your arm around and say, hey, I want to spend the next three months, six months, nine months, 12 months.
And I'd like to walk through life with you.
This is something I've done and am doing.
and I encourage you to do.
So as we close today, I want to remind us of, again, our identity statement, that we are an A.G. Church, who are comprised of church members who offer hope and healing to our community.
It's not just a slogan, though.
It's a mission that God has placed on our hearts.
Listen, this is, again, another one of those areas that we wanna talk about in New Berea Temple.
We wanna talk about the next phase of the life of our church.
This is it.
This is the next step.
We wanna see life inside the four walls of our church.
It's gonna be in the students,
and the children of our church.
Yes, we're gonna see adults come.
Yes, we're gonna see singles come.
And we wanna do everything we can to support them.
We wanna do everything we can to support our adults.
But we need to make sure that we're equipped and ready to also meet the needs of those young families who have children and youth
to begin to raise them up.
Our mission is to be hope and healing, and today specifically we're talking about supporting families, guiding youth, and mentoring our next generation.
Let's pray.
Father, we thank you.
We praise you for all that you have done.
Father, we want to know, we want to see tangible ways that you have called us to be the hands and feet of Jesus in our community.
We want you to show us tangible ways of how we can offer hope and healing to those who need it most.
Father, our message, our sub-series, yes, is about our body, but it's more so about outside the four walls of our church.
What does the community need from us?
And they need the church to step up and to provide hope and healing to the families that make up our neighborhoods, to step up and support the single parents of our neighborhood, to step up and to model biblical Christ-like worldview.
Father, I pray that you would help us be the hands and feet of Jesus.
every head bowed and every eye closed.
If you're here today and you've never made the decision to follow Jesus, I want to extend a very special invitation to you.
I want you to know that God loves you no matter what.
He has a plan and a purpose for your life.
And yes, that plan and purpose includes hope and healing and a future filled with His grace for you.
Matter of fact, I want you to know that Jesus said in the Book of Matthew chapter 11 and verse 28, he said, come to me all of you who are weary and carry heavy burdens and I will give you rest.
That is who he is.
No matter where you've been or what you've done, Jesus stands ready to welcome you with open arms.
Don't ignore if he's speaking to your heart today.
For the rest of us, I want us to commit to being a church that truly offers hope and healing.
Not just in words, not just listening to a sermon series, but in action.
Step out in boldness.
Step out in faith.
Step out in the power of the presence of the Holy Spirit.
And let people find the love of Christ through you.
Let people see Jesus in you.
and be drawn to Him.
Father, I pray for each one within the sound of my voice.
May you answer their call today.
May you place a burden on their heart today for families and youth.
We praise you and we thank you.
If you need to come, if you need to answer either one of those calls, the altars are open.
I'd love to pray with you.
You need to receive Jesus.
I'd love for you to come down as the worship team plays our final song.
The altars are open.
Find a place to pray whether in your seat or down here.